Using Nginx as a Kubernetes Ingress Controller is one of the most popular ways to manage external access to services running inside your cluster. It acts as a smart gateway, handling routing, SSL termination, and even load balancing.

🚀 What Is an Ingress Controller?
In Kubernetes:
- An Ingress is a set of rules for routing external HTTP/HTTPS traffic to internal services.
- An Ingress Controller is the actual implementation that watches those rules and enforces them—Nginx is one of the most widely used options.

🛠️ How to Set Up Nginx Ingress Controller
You can deploy it using Helm or YAML manifests. Here's a quick Helm-based setup:
✅ Step-by-Step (Helm Method):
helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx
helm repo update
helm install nginx-ingress ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx


This installs the Kubernetes-maintained Nginx Ingress Controller, not the commercial one from NGINX Inc.

📄 Example Ingress Resource
Once the controller is running, you can define an Ingress like this:
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: my-app-ingress
  annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
spec:
  rules:
  - host: myapp.example.com
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /api
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: flask-backend
            port:
              number: 5000
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: express-frontend
            port:
              number: 3000


This routes:
- /api → Flask backend
- / → Express frontend

🔐 Bonus: TLS Termination
You can add SSL support using cert-manager or manually:
spec:
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - myapp.example.com
    secretName: myapp-tls



📚 Want a full walkthrough?
You’ll find excellent guides like:
- DevOpsCube’s detailed setup
- DigitalOcean’s tutorial with TLS and DNS

If you're deploying this on AWS EKS or inside a local cluster like Minikube, I can help you tailor the setup, configure DNS, and automate certificate provisioning. Just say the word.
